# 📖 render-docs

This repository contains the code for the `render-docs` command line tool. The purpose of it is to create markdown documentation from doxygen compatible code comments in C and C++ code.
The benefit of maintaining API documentation along with the code itself is that you get inline documentation tooltips by IDEs that support that plus the chance of documentation getting out of sync is lower as code maintainers have it in front of their eyes when making changes.
The tool uses a fork of `moxygen` to parse the XML output generated by `doxygen`.

## 💻 Usage
```
Usage: render-docs [options] <sourc folder> <target folder>

CLI tool to generate markdown documentation from C++ code using Doxygen

Arguments:
  source                       Source folder containing the .h files
  target                       Target folder or file for the markdown documentation

Options:
  -V, --version                   output the version number
  -e, --exclude <string>          Pattern for excluding files (e.g. "*/test/*")
  -c, --include-cpp               Process .cpp files when rendering the documentation.
  -a, --access-level <string>     Minimum access level to be considered (public, private) (default: "public")
  -f, --fail-on-warnings          Fail when issues in the documentation are found (default: false)
  -d, --debug                     Enable debugging mode with additional output. (default: false)
  -r, --resolve-issues [api-key]  Automatically fix issues in the documentation. (default: false)
  -h, --help                      display help for command
```

You can also specify single files as input so only those will be processed (e.g. `render-docs Folder.h ./api.md`)

> [!TIP]
> If you don't want to render any output but only want to check the documentation for completeness, you can omit the second argument and add the `-f` option (e.g. `render-docs Folder.h -f`).

> [!TIP]
> You can leverate OpenAI to help resolving issues in your documentation (e.g. undocumented functions). To do so, you can omit the second argument and add the `-r` option (e.g. `render-docs Folder.h -r`).
For this to work you will have to create an [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) and provide it to this tool. You can do that either by adding it to the `-r` option (e.g. `-r fklj343-sdfjl-34`) or pass it as environment variable `OPENAI_API_KEY` (e.g. `OPENAI_API_KEY=fklj343-sdfjl-34 render-docs UFile.h -r`).

### Options Explained

- `--version` Prints the version of this command / package.
- `--exclude` Use this when certain files or folder inside the source folder should not be processed (e.g. `-e */test/* */node_modules/*`).
- `--include-cpp` It's good practice to do the class and function declarations in the .h file and thus also add the documentation there. However, if you happen to have code documentation also in .cpp files enabling this option will process those files too.
- `--access-level` Allows to specify which class members to filter out in the documentation. If you specify `private` all members will show up in the documentation. If you set it to `protected` only the private members will be filtered out. When set to `public` only public members will be processed.
- `--fail-on-warnings` The command will print out missing code documentation and issues in existing documentation. This allows to achieve 100% documentation coverage.
- `--debug` Enable this option to get additional output from the tool. This allows to debug in case you get unexpected output from the command.
- `--help` Displays usage information.

## ⚙️ Installation

The easiest way is to use npm: `npm install github:sebromero/render-docs --no-save --silent`
You can then call `npx render-docs` to run the command. Alternatively you can install the tool globally using `npm install -g github:sebromero/render-docs` and then run it with `render-docs`. A local installation is advisable whenever possibe as it avoids any version conflicts with this tool and its dependencies that may be used by other tools too.

## 🧑‍💻 Developer Installation

The easiest way is to clone the repository and then run the tool with `node index.js`.
For debugging purposes there is a VSCode launch config available.

## 🐛 Reporting Issues

If you encounter any issue, please open a bug report [here](https://github.com/sebromero/render-docs/issues). 

## 💪 Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## 🤙 Contact

For questions, comments, or feedback on this package, please create an issue on this repository.